README.md, before:

# AVSched: Quality-of-Mission Aware Scheduling for Autonomous Vehicle SoCs
AVSched is a multi-step scheduler that leverages dynamic runtime information about the underlying heterogeneous hardware platform, along with the applications’ real-time constraintsand the task traffic in the system to optimize overall mission performance. AVSched proposes two scheduling policies: 𝑀𝑆𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡 and 𝑀𝑆𝑑𝑦𝑛 and scheduling optimizations like task pruning, hybrid heterogeneous ranking and rank update. 

## STOMP: Scheduling Techniques Optimization in heterogeneous Multi-Processors
AVSched is implemented using the STOMP simulator. STOMP is a simple yet powerful queue-based **discrete-event** simulator that enables fast implementation and evaluation of OS scheduling policies in multi-core/multi-processor systems. It implements a convenient interface to allow users and researchers to _plug in_ new scheduling policies in a simple manner and without the need to touch the STOMP code.

STOMP is based on its predecesor C-based <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5749737" target="_blank">QUTE framework</a>.


## Usage

STOMP is invoked using the `stomp_main.py` script which supports the following options:

 * `-h` or `--help` : Print the usage information
 * `-d` or `--debug` : Output run-time debugging messages
 * `-c` *_S_* or `--conf-file=`*_S_* : Specifies *_S_* as a json configuration file for STOMP to use this run
 * `-j` *_S_* or `--conf-json=`*_S_* : Specifies *_S_* as a json string that includes the configuration information for STOMP to use this run
 * `-i` *_S_* or `--input-trace=`*_S_* : Specifies *_S_* as the filename from which STOMP should read an input DAG trace


## Traces

STOMP supports a trace-driven operational mode. A trace file can be generated using the trace_generator.py script in utils/ to create random uniform arrival of directed acyclic graphs  (DAGs). 
Once a trace has been generated, subsequent STOMP runs can use that trace in the following mode:

 * **Input-trace mode** : this means that the STOMP simulation will faithfully use the DAG type, arrival time, and deadline from the input trace.  This limits the ability of parameter changes (e.g. alterations in the mean service times, or the standard deviation) to affect the run-time behavior, since the DAG arrival times are taken from the input trace.  This does allow one to isolate the impact (in some sense) of the scheduling policy on overall performance.


## Requirements

STOMP requires:
 - Python 3.3 or above
 - Pandas


## Running STOMP

STOMP can be configured using the `stomp.json` file. To run it:

```
./stomp_main.py
```
Also checkout the script `run_all_2.py` in utils to run multiple runs for varying scheduling policies and parameters. To run with preloaded parameters and all scheduling policies run:
```
./utils/run_all.py -ucsv
```

## Contributors and Current Maintainers

 * Aporva Amarnath (IBM) -- aporva.amarnath@ibm.com
 * Augusto Vega (IBM) --  ajvega@us.ibm.com
 * John-David Wellman (IBM) -- wellman@us.ibm.com


## Do You Want to Contribute? Contact Us!

 * Aporva Amarnath (IBM) -- aporva.amarnath@ibm.com
 * Augusto Vega (IBM) --  ajvega@us.ibm.com
 * John-David Wellman (IBM) -- wellman@us.ibm.com

Commit message:

More cleanup and update requirements/README

README.md, after:

# AVSched: Quality-of-Mission Aware Scheduling for Autonomous Vehicle SoCs
AVSched is a multi-step scheduler that leverages dynamic runtime information about the underlying heterogeneous hardware platform, along with the applications’ real-time constraintsand the task traffic in the system to optimize overall mission performance. AVSched proposes two scheduling policies: 𝑀𝑆𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡 and 𝑀𝑆𝑑𝑦𝑛 and scheduling optimizations like task pruning, hybrid heterogeneous ranking and rank update.

## STOMP: Scheduling Techniques Optimization in heterogeneous Multi-Processors
AVSched is implemented using the STOMP simulator. STOMP is a simple yet powerful queue-based **discrete-event** simulator that enables fast implementation and evaluation of OS scheduling policies in multi-core/multi-processor systems. It implements a convenient interface to allow users and researchers to _plug in_ new scheduling policies in a simple manner and without the need to touch the STOMP code.

STOMP is based on its predecesor C-based <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5749737" target="_blank">QUTE framework</a>.


## Usage

STOMP is invoked using the `stomp_main.py` script which supports the following options:

 * `-h` or `--help` : Print the usage information
 * `-d` or `--debug` : Output run-time debugging messages
 * `-c` *_S_* or `--conf-file=`*_S_* : Specifies *_S_* as a json configuration file for STOMP to use this run
 * `-j` *_S_* or `--conf-json=`*_S_* : Specifies *_S_* as a json string that includes the configuration information for STOMP to use this run
 * `-i` *_S_* or `--input-trace=`*_S_* : Specifies *_S_* as the filename from which STOMP should read an input DAG trace


## Traces

STOMP supports a trace-driven operational mode. A trace file can be generated using the trace_generator.py script in utils/ to create random uniform arrival of directed acyclic graphs  (DAGs).
Once a trace has been generated, subsequent STOMP runs can use that trace in the following mode:

 * **Input-trace mode** : this means that the STOMP simulation will faithfully use the DAG type, arrival time, and deadline from the input trace.  This limits the ability of parameter changes (e.g. alterations in the mean service times, or the standard deviation) to affect the run-time behavior, since the DAG arrival times are taken from the input trace.  This does allow one to isolate the impact (in some sense) of the scheduling policy on overall performance.


## Requirements

The requirements to run STOMP are listed in `requirements.txt`.

## Running STOMP

STOMP can be configured using the `stomp.json` file. To run it:

```
./stomp_main.py
```
Also checkout the script `run_all_2.py` in utils to run multiple runs for varying scheduling policies and parameters. To run with preloaded parameters and all scheduling policies run:
```
./utils/run_all.py -ucsv
```

## Contributors and Current Maintainers

 * Aporva Amarnath (IBM) -- aporva.amarnath@ibm.com
 * Augusto Vega (IBM) --  ajvega@us.ibm.com
 * John-David Wellman (IBM) -- wellman@us.ibm.com


## Do You Want to Contribute? Contact Us!

 * Aporva Amarnath (IBM) -- aporva.amarnath@ibm.com
 * Augusto Vega (IBM) --  ajvega@us.ibm.com
 * John-David Wellman (IBM) -- wellman@us.ibm.com
